Deity idea #1
Name: TBD
Description: God of night and day. both signals and controls the rise of the sun and the moon. This is done through the use of their gongs which are proportional in size and shape to the celestial bodies which they represent. Various celestial events can be tied to the sounding of the celestial gongs such as the rising of the morning sun (the sun gong is hit once), the rising of the moons (the two moon gongs are struck once), Both sun and moon are in the sky (gongs are hit once, but ring in sync decided by frequency, based on gong size, and timing of the rising of each celestial body), and eclipses (only time when the gongs can be heard by spirits and other deities; both gongs are rung simultaneously with the frequency heard determining the type of eclipse being heralded). 
Design: Head of a stag with a human body. three eyes: one for the sun and two for the moons. Three gongs hang by the creatures antlers in perfect balance, with the sun gong being closer to the base with the two moon gongs counteracting the torque on the other side. Three eyes: two prey eyes of the stag (same as a deer), and one eye in the middle (human-like). Might be cool to add extra arms, but, considering the symmetry of the antlers, head, and body, introducing another element of asymmetry (such as the gong distribution) might not be as aesthetic idk. As for the dress, I'll leave that up to the experts :). Planning on drawing it at some point, but just wanted to post the idea.
Backstory: After the creation of the sun and moon, Asyam wanted to control their rise and fall without having to dedicate their consciousness to the task. In this effort, they forged, or rather created, three gongs respective of each celestial body. Going into the forest, Asyam found a sambar deer, whose body already rose in perfect rhythms with the day and night. Gently hanging the gongs on the antlers of the Sambar deer, Asyam infused the creature with a spiritual connection to the sun and moon from which a human eye appeared on the creature's forehead. Asyam, not yet pleased with his creation, gifted the sambar deer with the body of a human so that the consciousness bestowed upon the creature would not be without an appropriate vessel to manipulate the celestial relics. Gifting the name, {}, Asyam instructed the deer to hide away from humanity so that the gongs would not fall into the wrong hands. It is said that one can see {} hidden within the jungle, protected by spirits from the eyes of those tainted by greed and a lust for power. Asyam, in his intelligence, knew designed the gongs to ring at a frequency not audible to mortal ears and even hard to hear for spirits. It is only during the eclipse that one has any chance of finding {}, but beware for the jungle adamantly guards its ancient secrets.

### [Integration with the whaleshark lore]: 
Upon the sealing of syurapetri within the oyster, the enraged Whaleshark, in its spite and malice, moved the sun and moon across its skin, now enveloping the sky, causing chaos as the sun and moon moved erratically across the sky. Order had to be established; seeing this display of gross incompetence by their fellow gods, Asyam decided to more accurately control those two celestial pearls. Asyam tied the position of the sun and moon to two gongs (I forgot the name of the instrument you were thinking of, pati): one large, bright gong and one smaller gong with a silver gray luster. These gongs, once rung, would resonate with the pearls on the Syurapetri's body, making them incapable of conscious control by the tyrant. (good right? Makes multiple gods involved in the creation and control of the sky.)

Existence of a different deity, of a different species upon which Asyam adorned with gongs, could be a featured deity within mythology. Contention could be a sign of the ambiguity of the deity within historical accounts signifying the nature of the deity as a mysterious, elusive entity within Wadiwaya. 