I want to incorporate a pig divination ritual as the locus of events. A village is experiencing  times of uncertainty and immanent crisis, and in their darkest hour, are met with a foreign band of mercenaries offering "help". The townspeople, flocking to the good will of these men, offer up shelter in their homes and services in exchange for this band of mercenaries to offer up their labor, supplies, and skills in hunting for the continuation of the threatened, agricultural lifeline of the village.

The village shaman, previously in charge of the fate of the village, finds herself at odds with the new authority who offers a transformation away from Wadiwayan culture into a more extractive, anthropocentric mode of living. Within a few days, the village is eating plenty; the whole village enjoys a square meal every day with meat and foraged veggies. However, as the townsfolk start to mysteriously dwindle, always being whisked away at night, in her desperation, the shaman consults the spirits through a divination ritual. She suspects that the mercenaries are behind the disappearances, but with the recent fog rolling in, a bad omen, rumors are spreading on the walang (demon) \____ leading the village into the mist. Skeptical, the shaman consults the spirits.

The shaman starts her ritual after a long day of questioning, interrogating, and attending to the community food supply. Met with the setters at her pig pen,, there unfolds a conversation about the state of the village, its "relevant" history (succession of rulers, economic/cultural partner villages, ecology), and both the settler leader and the shaman sizing each other up. In this last point, the shaman warns them of their place; they are outsiders and should do well to conform to the ancient laws of this land. The settlers, not ignorant of the process of usurping power, recognize this woman as someone capable of appealing against their rule. They feign capitulation and inquire on the rules further, but the questions are oddly pointed and are asked in a shaky sincerity. The confrontation ends with a tension that lurks behind each character's words and actions; both sides, the village leaders and the supposed, foreign saviors, come away with a recognition of the enemy in their struggle for either balance or conquest.

The settlers disperse as the shaman attends to her ritual, but one of the setters, a spry child capable of hiding among the shadows, is sent to inspect the actions of the shaman and report back to the settlers. The settlers' leader suspects that this provision will not be enough and also elects to send his best men to spread dissent among the people of the village. The fate of the village, and its spiraling into doom, would be painted with a veneer betraying the sensibility of the people, and thus the people will betray their own interests. 

The pig caroled, the shaman prepared, wearing the proper regalia and perfumes, and the scout watching with awe from the bushes, the ritual begins. With three, swift lashes of her poisoned, bladed cane (kind of like a cat-o-nine tails but not a whip), the swine squeals bloody murder as it runs about the divination pen madly! However, the poison leaves the pig exhausted after mere moments, and its body turns still as stone so that only the pig's blood shows remnants of motion and pools in the final square: destroy. A grim portend indeed! The shaman, reading the trail of blood and its flecks scattered about the pen, traces the path of destiny: "From the beginning of instability (pig starts here), our village will encounter a demon (blood pooling and spilling across the boundary between destroy and demon). In our lack, we shall be lead astray from the path of plenty (blood spattered across the pen into plenty). Lured into the lair of this demon, we shall find our fate within whispers of promise; everything shall be destroyed in the pursuit of a dream beyond this world." (NOTE: This is a slightly different method of divination. I could describe the ritual EXACTLY as it's done in Minecraft, and that might be cool, but it could also be cool to have regional differences in how religious ritual is performed.)

The ritual ends and the silence heralding a storm falls over the pen. The scout scurries away unnoticed as the shaman ponders the corpse of the pig. With gratitude, she buries the creature and gives thanks to Wadi Buhasan and their (?) child gifted with vision.

The rest of the story is going to be a surprise, but this is the setup. The message is going to be disrespect Wadiwayan tradition at your own peril. Once the 9009 gods, spirits, and walang have made your place home, you would be wise to respect their whims. Let me know what y'all think! 

Rest of the story?
- There should be a part of the story where the shaman has the ear of the village, but faces resistance as there are those within the crowd designed to sow dissent in the wake of the village crisis. 
- Chapter showing the slander being spread between the settlers and the villagers as well as a scene illustrating the convictions of the settlers and how their culture is one of dominance and relations of power (could just resemble like foreign relations that America has)
- The shaman should be confronted by the settlers as dissent starts to rise and subjected to a trial or interrogation. In the shifting needs of the village, as tradition starts to break down, the settlers should leverage the "wrong doings" of the shaman related to the usage of pigs for sacrifice rather than for avoiding starvation. Compounding on this, the history of the village will be set as a basis for a counterculture which will flare up around this time. This village is on conquered land and far from the cultural core of Wadiwaya, so as the village starts to deteriorate, the pragmatically minded working class reject the religious ruling class. This tension reaches a climax as the shaman is subjected to torture at the hands of the settlers. 
- After the shaman is tortured to death, the village could experience either divine retribution. I figure that the fog could finally roll in entirely and, as the village starts to panic, the settlers are one-by-one hypnotized and whisked into the fog with the villagers. In the morning, the village is deserted.
- What will the shaman do to avoid this fortune that was read? Perhaps she will beseech the gods on her own sacrifice? What if the shaman sacrifices one of the settlers instead? Could she perhaps be executed by villagers based upon this practice? Perhaps the blame for the village cannibalizing its people could be set upon her in this event, but I think that requires some setup. The first encounter between the shaman and the settlers might need to happen sooner

Missing features: 
- The village people need to have some consciousness in this too rather than just being the setting for the conflict between the shaman and the settlers
- Village elder? Other wise people within the village to oppose the settlers
- What is the village characterized by? I was thinking that it would be particularly poor and far from the center of culture in Wadiwaya. Perhaps this village could even have roots as a conquered people who were assimilated into the Wadiwayan nation, but, due to a series of ecological disasters, the village finds itself cutoff from the core of Wadiwaya and susceptible to subterfuge. Perhaps the history of the village could be communicated via the narrator? That would add an interesting element of historical context to the actions of the village without having to individually characterize any particular character. The shaman could also be pictured as an outsider of higher standing by her grace in leading ritual: a characteristic of the religious ruling class of Wadiwaya (makes sense since those closest to the ruler of Wadiwaya would clearly have to be reverent of the Wadi (or at least outwardly reverent)).


